# COMMON KNOWLEDGE MODULE

how to maintain continuity of knowledge

There are 2 types of knowledge...

Codified knowledge, which is defined in Kanban-Zai as 

* self documenting code, including test suites.
* automated monitoring

Emepheral knowledge, which is difficult to define and difficult to
persist over time as staff turnover.  Usually this time of knowledge
is written down in documentation.  This is more than a waste of time
it is dangerous.  Dangerous because it very quickly becomes out of
date and is rarely maintained in an industry that moves as fast as
development industry.  Even if you do maintain the documentation it
can lead to catastophic errors speading misinformation, disinformation
and contradictory information.

Kanban-Zai discourages documentation as a general rule.  In certain 
cases documentation is the correct tool for the job.  Taking this 
approach you can maintain a balanced documentation strategy that 
dosent need to scale.

## What are some other ways knowledge is persisted
* FTE's
* limit the need for emepheral knowlege
* gossip



## Gossip

The best advice is: When in doubt, cite your source.

First a definition:

Broadly speaking, common knowledge refers to information that the average, educated reader would accept as reliable without having to look it up. This includes:

* Information that most people know, such as that water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit or that Barack Obama was the first American of mixed race to be elected president.
* Information shared by a cultural or national group, such as the names of famous heroes or events in the nation’s history that are remembered and celebrated.
* Knowledge shared by members of a certain field, such as the fact that the necessary condition for diffraction of radiation of wavelength from a crystalline solid is given by Bragg’s law.
* However, what may be common knowledge in one culture, nation, academic discipline or peer group may not be common knowledge in another.


What is not Common Knowledge?
Datasets generated by you or others.

Statistics obtained from sources such as the US Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

References to studies done by others.

Reference to specific dates, numbers, or facts the reader would not know unless s/he had done the research.

# GOSSIP

So, can gossip be good for you?
“People are really resistant to thinking about gossip as anything but a bad behavior,” says Robbins. And Feinberg notes that there are some types of gossip that should be avoided, such as gossip that is purely harmful and serves no greater purpose — like mean comments about someone’s looks.

“There’s an intimacy” to sharing experiences and feeling like you’re on the same page about others, she points out. Torres’ research has found that gossip can stave off loneliness, while other studies have found it can facilitate bonding and closeness and serve as a form of entertainment.

So, keep on talking. And when your conversation turns to gossip, as it inevitably will, remember that some good can come of it — with the right intentions, of course.

Gossiping is enjoyable. Many people gossip just for fun or to blow off steam.
When you gossip with someone, you and the person you're talking to are displaying reciprocal trust. The people you chose to gossip with are people you trust not to use the information that you're sharing against you.
Gossip encourages social bonding. The people you gossip with become part of a group -- everyone else is outside of your group.
Regardless of whether it is just an advanced form of grooming, gossip can play a lot of different roles in social interactions. When gossiping, people:

Entertain each other
Influence one another's opinions
Exchange important information
Point out and enforce social rules
Learn from others' mistakes